In the green zone the muscles on either side of your elbow joint are doing most of the work.
These muscles have a straight connection from your upper arm to your lower arm.
This provides good leverage
and makes them very efficient for lifting.
As your elbow moves to the yellow zone,
your shoulder starts to do more of the work.
These muscles do not have a straight connection
They're wrapped around your shoulder.
This makes these muscles work harder,
and explains why many people experience
shoulder pain and fatigue.
As your elbows move into your far red zone,
the strain moves to the joints of your low back.
Some of these muscles have very poor leverage.
In fact, in the very far red zone,
lifting a 10 pound object
can result in up to 500 pounds of force
on your low back.